simulation/app/src/main/cpp/README.md, before:

# Config file structure
## Overview
The `config.txt` file is a simple file from which variables get exported into native code in the CMakeLists.txt file.
Currently, no comments are supported in the `config.txt` file.
The variables can be accessed in the native code as:
```cpp
#ifdef LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE
        // Code here
#endif
```

## Description of currently exported variables
- `LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE`: Whether to load positions from a file or generate them in code via `ParticlesHandler::InitType`.
- `REDUCE_FIELD_GRAPHICS`: Whether to reduce the number of rendered field lines.
- `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`: Whether to use the physics preset for the double gyre.
- `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`:  Whether to use the physics preset for the perlin noise.
- `USE_GPU`: Whether to use the GPU for the calculations.
- `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM`: Whether to use multiple CPU threads for the calculations.

Setting any of the above variables to `1` will enable the feature, setting it to `0` will disable it. Note that the following sets of variables are mutually exclusive and should not be set to `1` at the same time:
- `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` and `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`
- `USE_GPU` and `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM`

Setting both `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` and `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` to `0` will default in an alternative double gyre physics preset.

Setting both `USE_GPU` and `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM` to `0` will default in using a sequetial CPU implementation.

## Adding new variables
To add a new variable, simply add a new line to the `config.txt` file with the following format:
```
VARIABLE_NAME=VALUE
```
where `VARIABLE_NAME` is the name of the variable and `VALUE` is the value of the variable. Then, add the following lines to the `CMakeLists.txt` file:
```cmake
unset(VARIABLE_NAME CACHE)
```
and 
```cmake
if(VARIABLE_NAME)
    add_definitions(-DVARIABLE_NAME=${VARIABLE_NAME})
endif()
```
The above lines can either be added at the bottom of the file, or in the appropriate section of the file where these commands are set for the existing variables.

Commit message:

Added README explanation of LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE

simulation/app/src/main/cpp/README.md, after:

# Config file structure
## Overview
The `config.txt` file is a simple file from which variables get exported into native code in the CMakeLists.txt file.
Currently, no comments are supported in the `config.txt` file.
The variables can be accessed in the native code as:
```cpp
#ifdef LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE
        // Code here
#endif
```

## Description of currently exported variables
- `LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE`: Whether to load positions from a file or generate them in code via `ParticlesHandler::InitType`.
- `REDUCE_FIELD_GRAPHICS`: Whether to reduce the number of rendered field lines.
- `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`: Whether to use the physics preset for the double gyre.
- `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`:  Whether to use the physics preset for the perlin noise.
- `USE_GPU`: Whether to use the GPU for the calculations.
- `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM`: Whether to use multiple CPU threads for the calculations.

Setting any of the above variables to `1` will enable the feature, setting it to `0` will disable it. Note that the following sets of variables are mutually exclusive and should not be set to `1` at the same time:
- `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` and `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS`
- `USE_GPU` and `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM`

Setting both `DOUBLE_GYRE_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` and `PERLIN_DEFAULT_SETTINGS` to `0` will default in an alternative double gyre physics preset.

Setting both `USE_GPU` and `USE_CPU_PARALLELISM` to `0` will default in using a sequetial CPU implementation.

Note that even when `LOAD_POSITIONS_FROM_FILE` is set to `0`, the application still expects the user to select a file in the initialization process. However, the file is not used this case - it can be any file.

## Adding new variables
To add a new variable, simply add a new line to the `config.txt` file with the following format:
```
VARIABLE_NAME=VALUE
```
where `VARIABLE_NAME` is the name of the variable and `VALUE` is the value of the variable. Then, add the following lines to the `CMakeLists.txt` file:
```cmake
unset(VARIABLE_NAME CACHE)
```
and 
```cmake
if(VARIABLE_NAME)
    add_definitions(-DVARIABLE_NAME=${VARIABLE_NAME})
endif()
```
The above lines can either be added at the bottom of the file, or in the appropriate section of the file where these commands are set for the existing variables.
